DATE OF LAST UPDATE: 05/2020

Instructions

  Introduction:
XCOPYFGC is a general purpose fighting game ai tool to be used with 2D fighting games on Windows.
The tool is designed for games that are styled after Capcom and 
Snk's Street Fighter and King of Fighter franchises. Platform fighters like Nintendo's Smash 
and 3D fighters like Tekken are not actively supported.


XCOPYFGC utilizes audio/visual elements common to 2D fighters to deduce gamestate.
When used on games that do not include these elements the program's performance will suffer.
A non-exhaustive list of the audio/visual elements used are given below:

+ 2 Health bars depicted as rectangles in the upper fourth of the screen reflected about the horizontal mid point.
+ 2 playable characters that occupy significant screen area.
+ sound effects that effectively indicated the game state.
...


XCOPYFGC works by parsing data from screenshots and audio buffer captures.
XCOPYFGC does NOT read or manipulate the memory of the game.
Because XCOPYFGC uses screenshots and audio information directly it is susceptible
 to much the same confusion and inaccuracy a human player is. When using XCOPYFGC characters should be
 given distinct colors from each other and the background.  
Additionally sound effects should be easy to hear over other in game or out game audio sources.



  Installation:
XCOPYFGC requires no installation. Double click the executable and things should work.




  Quick Start:
This quick start guide is aimed to help the user create and play against an ai copy of themselves.


NOTE: This section is for Jon. At some point this will need to update for more general use.



1) Start the XCOPYFGC program.

2) Set up controller/arcade stick/ keyboard by following on screen directions.

3) Open Guilty Gear and navigate to training mode.

4) In Guilty Gear training mode select characters and stages, be sure to select palettes and stages that do not over lap. 
   **For initial testing please select character: "Leo",  color: 3, stage "Heaven's Edge",
     Player 2 character: "Leo", color: 18.

5) Once training mode has loaded in XCOPYFGC set of character/background model by clicking on "Initialize Visual ai model" button.
   After which you should see an image of the frame the background was training on in the left hand side of the XCOPYFGC application.

6) In Guilty Gear exit training mode and select 1v1 battle. Set the difficulty *easy, then reselect the 
   characters and stage in step 4.

7) Preceding the start of the match click on "Train Ai" to begin training the algorithm. To end training make XCOPYFGC the foreground application***.
   *Note when in pre-training a grey rectangle will appear on the left side of the XCOPYFGC application.
    This rectangle will turn red when the application has begun training.

8) repeat steps 6-7 with progressively harder Ai opponents.

9) After training on 3+ matches set Guilty Gear to 1v1 battle setting your input device to player 2 
   and the keyboard to player 1. In XCOPYFGC set input device by following the directions on screen.

10) Select the same characters and stages from step 4. Then before the match in XCOPYFGC set the ai to "Run Ai". 
    To end playing make XCOPYFGC the foreground application***.

11) Enjoy!!



*** The traing will end if any application that is not the game XCOPYFGC is linked to, the game you are currently playing, is brought to the foreground.


  Questionnaire:





















